3\. Introduction to hypothesis testing via binomial tests
================
jsg
9/23/2020

Before doing this, review the **Introduction To Hypothesis Testing Via
Binomial Tests** lecture set slides from
<https://sites.google.com/view/biostats/bioenv-2100/hypothesis-testing-with-the-binomial-distribution>
and the **3\_hypothesis\_testing\_and\_binomial.R** script in the
lecture\_files folder of the [CUNY-BioStats github
repository](https://github.com/jsgosnell/CUNY-BioStats).

Remember you should

  - add code chunks by clicking the *Insert Chunk* button on the toolbar
    or by pressing *Ctrl+Alt+I* to answer the questions\!
  - **knit** your file to produce a markdown version that you can see\!
  - save your work often
      - **commit** it via git\!
      - **push** updates to github

## Hypothesis Testing and the Binomial Distribution

1.  Are people eared (do they prefer one ear or another)? Of 25 people
    observed while in conversation in a nightclub, 19 turned their right
    ear to the speaker and 6 turn their left ear to the speaker. How
    strong is the evidence for eared-ness given this data (adapted from
    Analysis of Biological Data)?

<!-- end list -->

  - state a null and alternative hypothesis
  - calculate a test statistic (signal) for this data
  - Make you understand how to construct a null distribution
      - using sampling/simulation (code or written explanation)
      - by using an appropriate distribution (code or written
        explanation) \*Calculate and compare p-values obtained using
      - simulation (calculation won’t be required on test, but make sure
        you understand\!) (code or written explanation)
      - equations for binomial distribution (code or written
        explanation)
      - R functions (required)(code)
  - Calculate a 95% confidence interval for the proportion of people who
    are right-eared
  - How do your 95% confidence interval and hypothesis test compare?

<!-- end list -->

2.  A professor lets his dog take every multiple-choice test to see how
    it compares to his students (I know someone who did this).
    Unfortunately, the professor believes undergraduates in the class
    tricked him by helping the dog do better on a test. It’s a 100
    question test, and every questions has 4 answer choices. For the
    last test, the dog picked 33 questions correctly. How likely is this
    to happen, and is there evidence the students helped the dog?

MAKE SURE TO THINK ABOUT YOUR TEST OPTIONS

## Distribution and Bayes

3.  Review the videos we watched in class

<!-- end list -->

  - <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mhlc7peGlGg>
  - <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o_djTy3G0pg>

<!-- end list -->

4.  I’ve shared a script in R that lets you test the Monty Hall idea
    (like in the video\!). It’s the chivers\_monty\_hall\_script from
    the [code\_examples
    folder](https://github.com/jsgosnell/CUNY-BioStats/tree/master/code_examples)code\_examples  
    on github. For this question, its easiest to just source the main
    file and see what happens. When you source a script, it is run in R
    without showing any console output (but graphs and objects are still
    produced\!). Try
    *source(“<https://raw.githubusercontent.com/jsgosnell/CUNY-BioStats/master/code_examples/chivers_monty_hall_script.R>”)*
    , then test out the idea here using the following functions which
    calculate outcomes under each strategy.

<!-- end list -->

  - monty(strat=“stay”, print\_games=F)
  - monty(strat=“switch”, print\_games=F)
  - monty(strat=“random”, print\_games=F)

<!-- end list -->

5.  Setup the Monty Hall problem as probabilities and convince yourself
    how it works. You may want to remember to think about prior and new
    information (likelihoods).

6.  Run the frog analysis (14/18 frogs are right-pawed) assuming an
    “uninformed” prior (is this really possible?) and priors that
    predict frogs are likely to be left- or right-handed (look under
    Bayesian analysis in script for functions such as triplot and
    qbeta). Vary both the relationship among the shape variables and the
    magnitude (weighting) to understand how the prior impacts your
    posterior.
